Sam and Vince shooty are old friends Sam
is a wild black bear
he started raiding Vince's cabin in
Minnesota many years ago he was hungry
after a poor berry crop and began
stealing to supplement his diet
Vince started to feed him and he's been
back for handouts every year since
Vince extended the favor to other
struggling bears Sam is now one of many
that realized they're on to a good thing
and come back year after year many years
and several bear generations later
Vince's backyard is overrun with
expectant diners in autumn as many as 90
bears gather from miles around and
demand to buffet
volunteers need to stay on their toes a
single quick witted bear could mug them
and steal the lot at this time of year
bears need 20,000 calories a day the
equivalent of 50 burgers
hundreds of tourists turn up every day
to witness the spectacle it's a unique
chance to see wild bears up close and
personal but is it right to hand wild
bears their food on a plate have we
turned these bears into a circus act and
should we really be encouraging bears to
become this obese unlike humans bears
can never be too fat they're adapted to
cope with massive fluctuations in weight
with no long-term health problems one
thing that does change is their need to
hibernate
many of these bears continue feeding
long after bears rely on wild foods are
forced into their dens the real problem
is that these bears have learnt to
associate people with food so if the
sanctuary ever closed most would head
straight for the nearest town and would
probably be shot
you